Gabe, thanks for doing this.
>> Of course.
>> Yeah, thanks for coming.
>> Maybe we can just start with like for
anyone who hasn't heard of Harvey, what
is the company? Can you talk about the
scale and who you serve today?
>> At Harvey, we're building AI for law
firms and large in-house teams. We're
almost at 1,000 customers, 500
employees. started about just over three
and a half years ago and so been kind of
scaling quickly since then and kind of
you guys were some of our OG seed
investors. So yeah, good to be here.
>> Maybe from a most basic perspective on
the product, why is it not just you know
co-pilot or touchp or claude?
>> Yeah, I think that's how the product
started. So when we first raised from
OpenAI, we got access to GPD4. And I
think GPD3 to GBD4 was such a big model
jump that the intuition at the time was
just give the model to lawyers and have
them play with it. And I think that
industry was so textheavy that you got
so much value from just interacting with
the models. And then I think as soon as
you gave it to lawyers, you also ran
into all of the sharp edges of the
models of they hallucinate. They're not
connected to a bunch of our context. And
so I would say the past the kind of
first two years of the company were how
do we build essentially the IDE for
lawyers around these models that connect
it to all of the context you need to be
productive as an individual lawyer. But
I would say in the past year and going
forward, the big problem we're solving
is not how do you make individual
lawyers more productive. It's how do you
make a team of lawyers working on a
client matter more productive? And more
importantly, how do you make an entire
law firm working on thousands of these
client matters more productive and more
profitable? And so I think when you get
to that scale, a lot of the problems
we're solving are not just model
intelligence problems. they are these
orchestration governance and kind of all
of the enterprise product problems that
you run into at at scale.
>> You've also been broadening from just
law firms into enterprises into big
companies using you in concert with both
our in-house legal teams and external uh
council. Can you talk more about that
and how that's been evolving as well?
Yeah. So, we started selling to the
largest law firms and something that
started happening about a year and a
half ago was these law firms started
showing Harvey to their clients and
their clients both wanted to collaborate
more effectively with their law firms
and they also wanted to use this
directly in their in-house department.
So, we recently announced we signed
Walmart. We're working with AT&T, a
bunch of these Fortune 500 large private
equity firms, Global 2000, kind of the
largest consumers of legal services. And
what we're starting to build is a
platform for the in-house teams to do
the work that they do internally. So
things like contracting and this long
tale of all of the legal operations you
need to do that you typically don't send
out to law firms but also the
collaborative tissue of I'm working on a
large transaction a litigation I need
outside expertise I want to securely
share this data with my law firm and
there's a lot of technical problems
there around security data privacy that
we want to solve so these law firms and
their clients can collaborate
effectively
>> I think for uh you know we have um a
largely technical audience, but also
most people don't know exactly what
legal workflow looks like.
>> Yeah.
>> Um I think before we really started
working together, I imagined it as just
like, well, what do you mean? I like
email my lawyer and he thinks about it
and like reads a document and then sends
something back, right? And um there's
like redlinining involved somewhere and
maybe there's negotiation.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you paint a picture of just what
workflow means to to you guys?
>> Yeah. Yeah. And I I think a lot of
people when they think about legal, they
think of consumer legal and so I have a
lease and I need to get, you know, input
on that. That's completely different
than what these massive law firms are
doing. And so I think a really good
example of what these firms are doing
that I mean you guys will be familiar
with and I think a lot of people in the
startup space will be familiar with is
what law firms do for venture capital
firms or private equity firms. Mhm.
>> And so VCs, PE firms, they do two main
things. You raise money and you invest
it.
>> And so the main podcast
>> and podcast, which is actually
important, but there's less legal work
there.
>> Um, and the important things you need to
do there are fund formation. So how do I
structure the entity that is going to
hold all that money?
>> And it sounds easy, but if you're a
large private equity firm, you have a
sovereign wealth fund that comes in and
they say, "We need to structure it in
this way because of tax implications."
Then you have a pension fund that has
these other requirements. And so it ends
up being this incredibly complex process
of how do you draft the limited
partnership agreement which can be 100
pages. Every investor that's investing
you can have a hundred and they all have
side letters that modify that and you
need to understand if I modify it this
way it's going to have these
implications. And a lot of it is the
project management that also goes around
coordinating all of these products if
you're raising you know a billion dollar
fund. And then once you've created that
fund, there's all the investments you do
out of that fund. And so for example,
when we did, you know, any of our
series, you need to get a data room. We
share a bunch of data. You look at that.
You need to understand the contracts we
have to make sure that the revenue we
say we have is actually structured in
the way we've claimed. And you know, are
there litigation? All these things. And
so it's this massively complex process
of understanding. And I I think one
analogy you can think of like
understanding a code base, but the
codebase is all of these contracts and
all this legal work. And I think the
reason legal is so difficult is the
workflows aren't structured. So the same
way with programming, it's really hard
until these models to build tools for
programmers. You basically just had an
IDE and then programmers did stuff in
all the different languages, but you
didn't have like, oh, here's a tool for
Python, here's a tool for C++. legal is
kind of the same way. And so I think a
lot of why you're seeing traction in
programming and legal is I think there's
a lot of analogies of of these workflows
of they're so textheavy and the
workflows until you had these models you
couldn't structure them in the way I
think you can now.
>> So one of the directions that people are
going on the coding side is to build
things that are being called like
agentic and it's very early on in terms
of what agentic means but basically
being able to deconstruct a logic tree
in terms of what are the set of actions
that you need to take in a certain
situation.
>> Yeah. and then having the um AI agent go
back and sort of check each one of those
items, do it, go on to the next item,
double check it against the prior one.
>> Do you do that from a legal perspective
or is that something that's a little bit
more in the future relative to where
code is today?
>> Yeah, we're starting to do this now. And
actually,
>> like when I was at DeepMind, a lot of
the RL research I did was that. And so
when we first got access to GB4, we had
the very strong intuition of okay,
you're going to be able to, you know,
string a bunch of these model calls or
eventually do things like reasoning
models where the full agent is
differentiable. And even the first day
we got access to GPD4, Winston went in
his room for 14 hours and just redid a
bunch of his associate tasks. And when I
looked at the work he was doing, it was
essentially like this hacky aogentic
where he said, "Okay, I would need to go
look up this case law, summarize it,
take that summary, use it to draft."
>> And so seeing him do that gave us the
intuition very early on of that's the
direction this is going. And you can
kind of think of associates as agents.
They get this task from a partner
that's, "Hey, I have this highle case
strategy. I want to see if I can find a
bunch of case law that supports it. Can
you go research that? look it up, cite
it,
>> write me a memo. And so a lot of the
systems we're starting to build look a
lot like that. And I I think one
interesting direction that the coding
labs, the research labs are going is
building these RL environments where you
deploy these agents and they can
interact with a codebase and see if they
can pass unit tests. And in legal that
RL environment is a client matter. So
you have all of the context of a fund
formation, an acquisition, a litigation,
and the models are starting to learn,
let me go in the document management
system and see if I can find this, go in
the data room or do case law research,
get feedback from the partner. And so I
think that research direction is is
super super interesting. And
>> it's really interesting you make the
associate analogy because I remember um
when I led your guys' series B, which I
think was maybe two years ago now, it's
a while ago. I called a lot of your big
customers and talked to the head of the
law firm or talked to the head of you
know um some of these institutions and
one of the things that I thought was
really striking is number one they were
adopting legal software which before was
really hard to sell into them and
because of what you were doing being so
striking and important they were
adopting you really fast the second is
um they weren't uh threatened by it and
I was I thought oh they'd be threatened
because it may augment or eventually
replace certain aspects of law etc or or
you know help sort of change that
dramatically and one of the insight they
kept bringing up that I thought was
really interesting is they said as we
think ahead as this sort of AI tooling
and agentic workflow spread through
Harvey and companies like you um how do
you think about the future of a law firm
because instead of hiring a 100red
associates of which you assume 10 will
be partners eventually maybe you only
need 50 maybe you only need 20
>> and so are you even hiring enough people
to know who'd be a great partner
>> because you're you're going to shrink
the set of people that are needed to do
certain tasks over time right right now
that isn't true it's augmentation it's
expanding business but that could happen
in the long run. How do you think about
the future of law or what law firms will
look like or you know the evolution of
all that?
>> Yeah, this this is a great question. I
think it's changed a lot in the past
couple years. I think something we are
starting to talk with law firms a lot is
how do we think of training the future
generation of partners where to your
point these law firms have these
leverage ratios where you have a lot of
associates but much less partners and
there is value to that because not
everyone is going to become a partner
and part of going through that process
is how you find oh this is the person
that I would trust to do this very
complex acquisition because they've gone
through that experience and so I think
the part I'm optimistic about is if I
think about over 10 years ago when I
learned to program it was super painful
right like you had to go on Stack
Overflow it was hard to learn multiple
languages because you're like okay I'm
just going to like learn Python I'm
going to learn TensorFlow or it was just
like hard to even learn that it was hard
to ask questions when I was at Google
you don't want to ask a bunch of
questions because people be like oh you
don't know that I think
>> stuck all the time
>> yeah exactly and now with the models
it's like programming is so fun to learn
because you can just be like here's how
to write this in Python, translate it,
why is it written this way? And you can
learn this so much more quickly.
>> And we see lawyers doing that with
Harvey where they'll say, generate this
merger agreement, why did we structure
it that way? And so, we're already
starting to see some of that. But I
think the really big opportunity for law
firms is how do they take all of the
internal partner feedback and data that
they've created and use that to start
training. I think that's one big piece.
I think another conversation we're
having is to your point, how do you just
generally start restructuring firms? I
think this is one where we have some
intuitions, but a lot of it is going to
depend on the firm, the region, the
size, their specialty, the types of
clients they serve. I think one of the
things that's very challenging with law
firms is they are really a collection of
all these practice areas. And so the
firms that specialize in litigation look
different than the firms that specialize
in large transactions versus like
midsize transactions. And usually the
big firms do a collection of these. And
so a lot of what we're spending time is
practice area by practice area. Can we
go and sit with here's the fund
formation group and their private equity
clients and start thinking about what
that would look like in terms of the
workflows, the staffing, the pricing.
Mhm.
>> Uh and I think it is a really
interesting problem where a lot of the
value in the product and the platform is
not just the product itself, but how do
we help enable these firms to transform?
And so when you think about it from that
perspective, like our goal is how do we
make these law firms more profitable?
And it's not just a product problem.
It's thinking about their holistic
business and where do we fit in in kind
of that bigger picture. Mhm.
>> Yeah. It's really interesting because
when you look at the set of functions
that a partner fills and I'm I'm
thinking in particular of consulting
firms and less about law firms simply
because I'm a little bit more uh
familiar with consultancies uh some of
it's the pattern recognition, the high
level thinking, the strategy and then
part of it is like the sales.
>> Yeah.
>> And really being able to make that
client connection and and so it's
interesting to to your point think about
more broadly how can AI augment all
parts of their business versus just the
the legal workflows.
>> Yeah. And to your point, I don't think
that part changes where it's like when
we think of the like we're now larger
consumers of legal services and when we
think of the best partners we've worked
with, I don't think the models are doing
Yeah.
>> what they do anytime soon. And I think
what's interesting is I think the role
of law firm partners actually doesn't
change that much in the same way I don't
think the role of very senior engineers
changes with this because you're largely
delegating work and what you're getting
paid to do is here's the highle strategy
here's the right abstractions go write
the code or write do the legal research
to help me do it and I will interface
with the client and so I think that my
guess is that doesn't change too much
but some of the like lower level
functions do change because of this
technology One of the things that you
said that I thought was interesting like
in another conversation um that we were
having was that there's an analogy that
you could make between like a great
senior partner like a Gordon Moody type
and like a distinguished engineer
working on systems at Google, right? Um
I think for a more technical audience or
just general business audience that
doesn't really know what Gordon Moody
does, they might assume what Alad said
which is like isn't like 50% of that
like his network, right? Or his
reputation? Um, but you know what you
were pointing out is like there's
expertise in the ability to predict like
a sequence of arguments that is going to
like get you to the answer you want or
manage risk.
>> Exactly.
>> Um, how does that how does that
translate to an RL environment or a task
for you?
>> Yeah, this is a good question. So for
maybe for background context for the
audience, Gordon Moody was a partner at
WCTEL, which is one of the top
transactional firms in the world that
joined us early on and is now an
adviser. And kind of the analogy I was
giving is why is a senior distinguished
uh distributed systems engineer at
Google so valuable? And a lot of it is
the experience they have architecting
these systems that none of this is
public. this will won't go into the
models for a long time. And so if you're
building search at Google, these people
can just point out, hey, if you build
this system this way at this scale, it's
going to collapse for some reason. That
is super not intuitive.
>> And one of the examples that Gordon
talked about early on was he was a part
of uh when Michael Dell took Dell
private and then restructured it and
took it public again. And this was like
a multi-year
super complex financial and legal
restructuring of an incredibly large
business. And what he when you talk with
him is incredibly good at is the same
feeling as when you talk with a very
senior engineer where he can just he has
the whole picture of this legal entity
in his head.
>> At the time they had to do the largest
debt offering of all time. They had to
create they had to invent a new
financial instrument. And so it's just
understanding if I need to raise this
much money to do this part of the
transaction, this is how I would
structure it. And so a lot of the value
he brings is not just the relationship,
but it's just that technical
understanding of how you architect these
things the same way that how you
architect like very large software
projects. And I think when that
translates to an RL environment, part of
what is missing from the public models
is the process of looking at one of
these entities and figuring out given
all of the context of I want to do this
merger. This is the right way to
structure it. Just that process and a
lot
>> it's a reasoning trace, right, for an
expert just like it would be in code.
>> Yeah. And if you looked at that data set
for one of those transactions, it would
be client comes to Gordon says, I want
to do this large merger acquisition and
then there would be meetings and emails
talking about, okay, this is the
background of the two companies. This is
roughly how we would structure them.
These are all the things we need to look
into. And a lot of the data would be
Gordon giving these tasks to associates
to say, okay, look into these risk
factors of similar transactions we've
done. they would do research and say,
"Okay, maybe we could structure it this
way." And then he would point out this
really subtle thing that, "Hey,
actually, in this case, if you
structured it this way, this thing's
going to happen."
>> But none of that shows up. Like all you
get from these public mergers is like an
SEC filing. And so you do see the final
result, but most of the
>> value or what you need, I think, to
eventually improve these models is the
decision-m process. the same way you
need these reasoning traces to to train
these models to do kind of any of these
reasoning tasks.
>> One of the as you mentioned like the
labs are all very focused on um uh RL
scaling in um like coding and math
domains. Yeah.
>> Um I think of those as like highly
verifiable right not perfectly so but
like how how do you think about the
appropriateness of like law for
>> RL given it's not as easily verifiable?
Yeah, this this is one of the biggest
problems and I remember we had
conversations early on when we were
trying to figure out what is the right
evaluation structure. So I think the
hardest thing about legal is most of
these tasks are very long form text
generation. And so there are definitely
subsets of legal work that are super
verifiable of go in this data room and
just find all the change of control
provisions that you can kind of build
these traditional data sets. But for
something like generate this merger
agreement,
>> it's really hard to just give some
binary like this is good or this is bad.
>> And I think this has been like a big
research problem like with all the labs
we work with and also internally there
is just this open question of how do you
build that reward function? And if you
think of what that reward function is at
the law firms, it's the partners, right?
Like at the end of the day, there is no
way to verify this besides this senior
partner who's done a bunch of these
said, "Yeah, this looks pretty good." M
>> and so internally these law firms have a
bunch of data of here's all the edits
that went into this and the feedback and
so we are starting to think about how do
you use that to train these reward
functions but I would say that is one of
the really big problems but I think one
of the interesting things is I think you
actually have the same problem in
programming where I think in the short
term programming is verifiable where you
can look at unit tests but once you get
into real software engineering like the
unit. There is no unit test. It's like I
deployed system design.
>> Yeah. It's like I deployed this and a
million users used it for six months and
it didn't crash. And so you get and and
it's like mergers are the same where
it's like you can make sure the filing
is correct. But at the end of the day
it's like 3 years later the companies
are still merged and they didn't take on
litigation they didn't expect or
something like that. And it's like that
is eventually the really valuable human
experience, right? That's what you pay
really good software engineers or really
good lawyers where they have that
decadel long track record of they can
build these systems and they haven't
fallen apart and a lot of these stuff
the same way you can't unit test it's
like hard to verify. So it is I think
this really interesting open research
problem. One thing that you guys are
doing on sort of the um other end from
pushing the bounds of uh what Harvey
products and um the models can do is
like just get them deployed and uh you
recently started this for deployed
engineering force. Yeah.
>> Um this is [clears throat] confusing to
to me because I'm like well you're not
necessarily like an application building
company which is how people have
traditionally thought of FTE. Like why
are you doing this? I would say the
model that we're operating under is not
a full palunteer let's go into the
codebase and kind of build custom
software.
>> Uh I I would say this is closer to like
Sierra's agent engineering um program.
But what we're starting to run into a
lot is I think early on we did a really
good job of building a horizontal
platform. We did not that much
customization for customers in the sense
of building specific things for specific
customers. I think the thing that was
nice about legal was we could build
things like workflow builder and things
into the product that would let
customers customize the product. And
then for very large customers like PWC,
we did some customization.
But now we're getting to the point where
when we're starting to talk with law
firms about, hey, we want to take a
bunch of this data and help you build a
model or build agents, there is some
amount of we need to go in this
environment into your environment and
figure out how to connect all the data.
We're starting to connect to a lot of
their like business systems. So their
billing systems, governance systems, and
then especially when we start working
with the Walmarts, the very large banks,
the Fortune 500, they're much less
standardized than these law firms. And
so there is just this massive amount of
work where we go to a large bank and
they say, "We don't have any document
management system for our legal
department. Can you just build us one?"
Mhm.
>> And there is a massive amount of demand
of we just want smart technical people
to sit here and help us think about our
business and our operations and how we
should start mapping that into Gen AI
systems. And for us it's a really good
way to figure out the roadmap where for
example Blue Owl is like one of the
fastest growing private equity firms
that uh we recently started working with
and they we meet with them all the time
and they're just like there's all these
things that we feel like we could map
into Gen AI. We don't quite know what
it's going to look like but let's just
sit together and figure it out. And so I
would say that's a lot of the genesis of
the of the program of how do we just get
more people that can work with all these
customers and start kind of paving the
way of some of these new road maps in
different verticals.
>> Yeah. I think what you're describing too
is a very standard enterprise playbook.
>> And I think in Silicon Valley people
almost forgot because of the SAS era
that if you're Oracle, if you're Dell,
if you're IBM, if you're any of these
larger organizations, this is how you
sell software.
>> Exactly.
>> Right. You have a platform, you have a
bunch of customization around it. people
have bespoke data sets. They may not
always have the ability internally or
enough people to implement certain
connectors or systems,
>> right?
>> And this is like the standard way to do
it. And then as you do it over and over
again, you start repeatedly turning that
into part of the platform. And so
>> and and I I think a lot of these started
with doing something that resembled FD
and then you get big enough that you get
this like implementation ecosystem.
There's all these third parties that
will come in and implement.
>> It'll be like the certified like vendor.
And and I think the interesting thing
we're actually starting to see is law
firms are starting to do this for their
in-house clients. So they're starting to
go and take Harvey and go to their
clients and say, "Hey, buy Harvey and
we'll help you build all the workflows
and implement it because we have the
scale and the expertise to build this
where typically these in-house teams,
the smaller ones don't have like the
budget or the in-house to build this."
>> And so yeah, I think there is kind of a
>> that could be a good revenue driver for
the law firms that you work with in
terms of a new line of business that
they can offer. Yeah. And some of them
are starting to think about it that way.
>> Yeah.
>> I was really struck by it wasn't I don't
know if it was day zero, you can correct
me, but it was within the first year
where the very first version of Harvey
was really an individual lawyer
productivity tool, right? Uh I'm an
associate or a more senior personal law
firm. I want to get a piece of work
done. Can you just make it less painful?
Uh but the transition quickly to like
how do we transform the business, make
the business more profitable, like
organized teams being the ecosystem I
think happened pretty quickly and like
anything that is a business
transformation just requires like
>> you know a lot of engagement.
>> Yeah.
>> Um and so I I given how much you guys
have invested in customer success and
how that's like driven adoption, I feel
like a big piece of it is just how
quickly AI has happened.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. I I would not necessarily have
predicted that all the customers you're
working with would be like yes in year
one and two of this company selling
we're adopting. Yeah.
>> Um but you know part of it is you guys
are helping them right.
>> Yeah. No and I I think this was like
when I look back it was still surprising
how quickly some of these law firms
adopted this. like our first customer we
actually met through you introd
school here and he introed us to David
Wakeling at ANO that was in our first
year and they went from a small pilot to
firmwide and investing in this and I
think I mean I think you're seeing this
in a couple verticals with like cursor
open evidence where this technology is
so transformative for these industries
that just are so techs heavy and
knowledge based they just haven't had
tools like this that I think Early on,
we did find these customers that were
like, "Oh, this is worth really betting
on, but yeah, I think the pace has still
been pretty surprising."
>> I asked the internet through X, uh, what
questions we should ask you. Um, and a
popular one was like, "Why aren't you
guys building a law firm? Are you going
to build a law firm and compete with all
your customers?"
>> Yeah. No, we we get this question and I
mean I think when we first started
Harvey and we were doing research, we
actually talked to 30 people from Atrium
and I think also interestingly Sam and
uh Jason who was the GC of OpenAI at the
time
>> and was the GC at Y Combinator when they
did the Atrium investment. What struck
us was the people who worked there said
it was a really good idea and they were
super excited about the prospects and
then there were some challenges around
the legal and the execution. But when we
dug more into it, the big challenge that
they ran into was you're essentially
just building two different companies,
right? You're building a law firm and
you're building a tech company.
>> And it's already really hard to like
build product engineering, do AI, scale
sales. And I think the big issue you run
into if you try to do both of these is I
think you can only do one thing well and
doing a law firm well is very different
than building a software company well. I
think that's one point. The bigger point
is
for us it feels like the best outcome is
if we can figure out how do we make
every law firm how do we help every law
firm become an AI first law firm not how
do we build one ourselves and I think
the real problem we're trying to solve
is can we make every law firm more
profitable and a part of that is how
they work with their clients and can you
make their clients get better faster
cheaper legal services and I think
solving that equation at scale is a much
bigger opportunity than if you build a
single law firm because you get
conflicted out. You can't scale this.
And so I think this is probably like
this is something we don't do but we've
gotten this question but yeah I I think
it's kind of not the focus for the
company.
>> Analogous to other uh markets in
software. Um law feels like an area
where I've been very surprised
personally about how how large the scope
of the problem is eventually if you're
really ambitious about what you can do.
Um, I didn't realize like you you were
telling me, you know, if you do a really
large M&A, let's say of like two global
companies, Microsoft, Activision or
something, you're like there's a hundred
outside council firms here. You know
why? Because in New Zealand, where both
companies have customers, you have like
a tax implication, and the dude who
understands that lives in New Zealand,
right?
>> Yeah. Oh, it's Yeah, it's crazy.
>> And and so I I think like, you know,
like other markets, like the SMB version
of this looks really different from the
like high-end enterprise version of
this.
>> Yeah. Um, and so I I do think it's like
hard. It just seems hard to imagine like
coalesing all of that expertise in a law
firm and a software company at the same
time versus I'm like, well, Harvey now
has like what 40 customers in New
Zealand.
>> Exact. Yeah. And and I mean, if you
think about those transactions, it's
also not just law firms. So there's
investment banks and you maybe have PWC
or a tax advisor and there could be an
HR consultancy that helps you think
about how you're merging headcount. And
>> so for us the bigger opportunity seems
how do we build the platform that lets
professional service providers and their
clients collaborate
>> and I think a lot of the problems you
need to solve there are like the biggest
is the secure collaboration across many
of these entities the secure data
sharing. How do you build and deploy AI
systems across these very complex
projects? And I think to your point, the
scope of this, like legal is a trillion,
professional services is something like
3 to 5 trillion. There's just this
massive amount of room to grow. And we
think our expertise is going to be in
building the product, the technical
systems, the AI systems that enable
that. and we want to give that
infrastructure to all of the different
law firms rather than compete with them
because I just don't think you can. I
>> think one of the things that's really
striking um about this sort of wave or
era of AI is that there's deeply
technical people building giant
companies in really different
industries.
>> Yeah.
>> And you come from a research background.
You worked at one of the major labs in
terms of foundation models and other
areas, RL environments, reinforcement
learning. What has been your biggest
surprise in terms of transitioning into
being a founder and running a company
and building something from the ground
up like that?
>> I think maybe maybe not surprise but
biggest like mental model shift is I
think the 10 years before Harvey I was
doing a mix of mainly AI research and
then trying to start companies but
always largely as an IC. Mhm.
>> And I think the shift from this started
working and scaling just how much I had
to change my mental model of the type of
company we're building, how you do this
at scale, how you operate. I think that
was the biggest
>> surprise or like thing that I've had to
had to change. But it's been a crazy
experience kind of going from, you know,
Winston and I in an Airbnb to 500 people
in like three and a half years. Then I
think also how you build these products
at scale and kind of the complexity of
this industry like that has been like a
really hard but interesting experience.
>> It's been amazing to see what you all
have accomplished. you know, it's it's
such a short period of time. And
>> I I was thinking back to like when we
pitched to both of you guys like three
and a half years ago and we were like,
"Hey, AI plus for legal." And you guys
were like, "Sounds good." But we like I
mean, we had some of these ideas, but I
think they've really like
>> I think a really important aspect of
that too is um you all started this
company
>> um before GPT4 came out and before a lot
of the shifts in the models happened.
And so I remember you showing side by
side GPD 3.5 versus 4 and what you were
doing worked on four but not on 3.5.
>> Yeah.
>> And you were part of that very early
wave that had conviction this was so
important as a trend. Was that because
of your experience in the labs? Was it
something else? Like what drove you
because not many people were actually
starting AI companies when you all got
started.
>> Yeah.
>> And it was kind of just to your point AI
plus legal like nobody was doing that.
>> Yeah. Yeah. It's something where now
everyone's like oh this is such an
obvious idea but at the time Yeah. Yeah.
Now Yeah. text in, text out. But at the
time, yeah, no one was thinking about
this. I think it was a combination of a
couple things.
A lot of the best people at the time I
had worked with had gone to OpenAI and
so I was working on large language
models at Meta. You saw GPD 1, GPD2,
GPD3. If you were working in AI for the
past 10 years,
>> kind of one of the big problems were how
do you pull all this together? because
you built systems where okay this is
really good at vision this is really
good at like specific things but no one
really had the like general solution and
you saw saw you saw things like lambda
>> and I think with that trend like what
I'd seen is anytime you kind of make
that initial okay this is how you do it
you can usually just scale and this
stuff keeps working and so with 3 3.5
you were like this is getting really
interesting but it's not quite there
>> and so the bet was okay, OpenAI may be
one of the people to crack it. Like I
know a lot of the people there.
>> Uh that was part and then I think the
other big part was just Winston uh was a
lawyer and I think we had become super
close. never thought we'd start a
company together, but just the way I
heard him talk about the legal industry.
Like he, even though he was a first year
associate, just had this intuition of
not just the work he was doing, but the
structure of the firm. Like I would hear
him talk about the firm and be like,
"Here's what all the different partners
are doing. Here's like why our firm
strategy is this way." He had he was in
the process of convincing some partners
to leave to start a law firm with him
which is insane for like and so it was
just like okay this will be really fun.
He showed me a bunch of his legal tech.
It was like this seems like the perfect
application and then when we saw GBD4 I
was just like oh the time is now like
this is the perfect like application. I
think it is like really noteworthy uh
where I was actually like you know even
six months into um working with you guys
being like well our capabilities really
going to advance that quickly and both
you and Winston were like absolutely
right like we should we should have the
ambition to
>> um take on the full complexity of like
any type of legal work that's possible
because the models will keep getting
better and like that seems like an like
a like a super obvious mainstream point
of view today but in I don't know the
middle of 2022. I think it was like a um
it was a strong unique intuition to
have.
>> Yeah. Yeah. I I think that was something
we did really well where we just had
this belief where I think the same that
you see with the programming products
where if you had built something where
it's like all this does is like check
that your Python code doesn't have bugs
which you could have done better with
3.5 like you wouldn't have built
something like cursor. And the intuition
was just these models can help you do
any programming task in any programming
language.
>> And I think we felt that same way in
legal. And I had a bit of intuition. I
did like a bit of investment banking,
private equity. And it was the same
workflows where you could just do any of
them with these models. And so I think
keeping the product open-ended enough
that it gave us the room that now we can
build into all these things and and like
professional other professional
services. I think that was super
important. It's a it's a really
interesting analogy because for code it
took an extra two years I think for the
main coding companies to really emerge
as the ones that are likely to win.
>> Yeah.
>> Right. Um and so you folks started I
think um three and a half years ago and
you had a product almost immediately and
you were up and running really fast and
then I think um cursor didn't really
launch its IDE until 24 months ago
something like that.
>> Yeah, that sounds Yeah.
>> And then cognition was slightly in that
era and then obviously cloud code
>> six months later. And so everything kind
of came kind of in a time delayed way
for code even though get up copilot was
one of the first products and everybody
knew that that was really important
>> and I always think that's really
interesting because there were so many
coding companies that got started under
the premise but somehow it's these ones
that started a little bit later that
really were the ones who took off and so
I always wonder why is that
>> you know what caused that? I my guess is
my part of my intuition here was just
you guys were like let's say like very
um uh AGI is less trendy as we're now
but very capability build from the
beginning right so both you Winston and
you as a shred of an investment banker
turned AI researcher were both like it's
going to be able to do so much
>> the coding people thought that too
>> yeah they were
>> I think people were I think people were
a little less ambitious like three years
ago at least
>> some people were going to go and build
giant models and you know feel like
>> people were very ambitious. I just think
that maybe you folks immediately focused
on product
>> and that was part of the difference.
>> I think it was finding the right form
factor and I think in legal it was maybe
a bit more obvious where the initial
form factor was essentially like
>> like the the initial feature we built
that none of the products had at the
time was upload a document and do
something with it, right? And that is a
lot of legal tasks.
>> And it was that and then do really
accurate citations. And when you showed
people that they were like, "Oh, this is
crazy because that's so much of my job."
I think with coding,
>> the initial models were also not quite
as good that you needed maybe a bit more
capabilities of the base models and then
you needed I think figuring out the
right way to like integrate this into
the into the ID. Yeah, but I mean I
remember where it's like the first
version of the product that I built it
was mainly like I used GPD4 because like
most of my background was like
distributed systems and AI research and
I was I still don't know React. I just
like JavaScript and kind of like putting
this together but I'd be like hey GBD4
like help me make this and like you
could kind of already see it at the time
with programming and that was part of
what gave me the like intuition that I
could analogize to like what Winston was
doing. What you mentioned that you folks
have gone uh from basically the two
founders to 500 people over the last
three and a half years or so. You're
obviously growing really quickly. The
business is working. You know, you have
tons of customer demand. Uh what are you
hiring for? What are you looking for in
terms of the next set of employees or
what types of roles are you hiring for
right now?
>> Yeah. On the on the technical side, so
we mentioned FTEEs. I think looking in
general like across roles of just strong
engineers and then I would say maybe
specific callouts. We just hired a site
lead for New York. So starting to scale
up that office. Uh more folks on kind of
front end and scaling product in
general. And then more AI folks as well.
So but yeah, anyone strong engineer like
please apply.
>> Okay, last question for you.
>> How many pull-ups can you do?
>> Just kidding.
>> We did find out. Yeah. Well, I I don't
know if that was the max, but these guys
can both do 15 pull-ups, guys, with a
wink in the middle.
>> Okay. Okay. Okay, guys. We get it. Um.
Uh.
>> What do you mean in what set?
>> In [laughter] one set. In one set of
>> We got to do the 24-hour challenge.
>> Yeah. Oh, what's that?
>> Just how many can you do in a day?
>> No. Really?
>> Yeah.
>> It's a lot.
>> Yeah. You can upload to your Tik Tok.
>> Put it on the no prior Tik Tok.
>> Does anyone have a Tik Tok?
>> No.
>> Okay. I don't have a Tik Tok. Yeah.
>> Do you know what Tik Tok is very good
for?
>> Arowan videos.
>> Oh, this is good.
>> Yeah, that's really good.
>> Super good.
>> Yeah, that's some really funny
>> arrowan videos. like the LA
>> Yeah. like spoo and or like people like
like there's one where it's um the Miami
girl visits.
>> Oh my god.
>> She's like Arisant [laughter]
>> like are you fun?
>> So it's very good. I highly recommend.
>> I'll have that sent a couple.
>> Yeah. No that and Twitter I feel
>> that's where all my time goes.
>> Yeah.
>> Tik Tok everyone videos.
>> Okay. You can pick We'll pick one of
these two. I asked some other people
involved in the company. What questions
should I ask Gabe?
>> Oh boy. We covered some of them, but one
of them was like, "Why do you still
sleep on an air mattress?"
>> Okay, so I don't sleep on an air
mattress. I have a good mattress. I
don't have a bed frame,
>> is where that's coming from. And so what
happened is when we moved from LA to SF,
my bed frame broke.
>> Mhm.
>> And then the first year and a half of
the startup, things were so crazy. I was
like, this is what a startup founder
should do. And at some point, I was
like, I need to get a bed frame. and I
ordered one and
it came and I got a call from the
apartment and they were like, "Hey, you
didn't sign out, you didn't fill out the
insurance, like the rent, the mover's
insurance, so we can't let them bring
this up." And I was like, "Okay." I
called them. I was like, "Hey, do you
guys have renters's insurance?" They're
like, "We're UPS. We don't they're just
like, "We don't do that." And then I was
just like, "I don't have time to deal
with it." And I haven't dealt with it.
[laughter] We have other problems to
solve. So,
>> okay. Yeah.
>> So physically can't do anything except
the company right now. And
>> pull-ups. Exactly.
>> Yeah. Other question was um you know
there's a bunch of foresight in starting
Harvey when you guys did when you look
forward. Do you have a prediction that
you think others don't necessarily agree
with you right now that is not
mainstream. So, one comment I'll
definitely make on the foresight is I
think a lot of like we've gotten
comments of like, oh, overnight success
and oh, you saw this coming and I would
say I actually just spent the decade
before Harvey trying to start a company
like Harvey. So, I think it was just I
was super early and then eventually it
was like, oh, now is the right time and
then you were kind of in the right
position.
I my guess is I think people now are
catching up to how capability build as
you called it like Winston and I were. I
think people in Silicon Valley, I think
people have a good sense of where these
models are going, but I think generally
people don't appreciate how much better
they're going to continue getting.
>> It's hard to internalize.
>> It's really weird. Yeah, it's really
weird. And
>> I build things and I'm like, "Oh my god,
codegen works. It just really works
now."
>> It's crazy. Yeah. And I to me it's like
I think the interesting thing will be
the transition from like these models
are really smart individually but if you
think about like a lot of what we've
done in the past 20 years with SAS it's
how do we use software to make these
massive organizations and I think that
will be the continued trend where a lot
of what we're starting to think about is
like law firms have like 10xed in size
compared to before computers and the
internet and I think that's going to
happen again but in like maybe a
different way than the past 20 years.
But I think that to me like a lot of
people still talk about co-pilots and
individual productivity and I think a
lot of the the things we're starting to
think about is like organizational
productivity and like how do you build
these systems at scale where both for
our internal engineering team like I
think a really interesting question for
the for the cursors the codeexes is like
making someone program 20% faster
doesn't make you build a product 20%
faster and so starting to think about
like what is the broader infraure
structure you need so these companies
can develop software and product faster.
And then kind of same analogy to legal.
I think that's kind of one of the things
we're thinking about that I maybe don't
hear people talk about as much.
>> Kind of collaborative AI in some sense.
It's it's sort of like the Figma
transition of you're individual
contributor designer versus working
collaboratively with the design team.
>> Exactly.
>> And what you're talking about is doing
that for law, doing that for code, doing
that for different verticals and having
AI as a layer on top of that. So it's
super interesting.
>> Yeah. And I I I think to that point,
it's like how do how are humans and AIs
going to work super effectively? Because
even at these large companies, you have
huge teams of different specialized
people that have different functions.
And I think when I hear a lot of people
talk about these models, they kind of
talk about as like, oh, AI will just get
smart and do all of this. And I don't
think that's the way this evolves the
same way. It's not just like
>> hire 100,000 people and now you've built
Walmart. It's like so much of it is like
>> million.
>> How you three mill Yeah. Three million
actually. Yeah. how you organize all of
these and I think that will be like one
of the really interesting problems for
>> interesting. Yeah, I'm seeing that a lot
in the context of both AIdriven roll-ups
as well as this company Brainco that
>> help get up and running where a lot of
the AI implementation issues are around
people management workflow optimization.
It's it's much less about can you build
the AI and much more
>> how do you actually change the
organization to be able to adopt it
properly. So
>> yeah, no and we're starting to work with
a lot of private equity firms that I
think it's interesting like starting to
see how they're thinking about that
because I think that will be like really
interesting space.
>> Awesome. Thanks Gabe.
>> Thanks for
>> Thanks so much for having
[laughter]
us on Twitter at no prior [music] pod.
Subscribe to our YouTube channel if you
want to see our faces. Follow the show
on Apple Podcasts, Spotify, or wherever
you listen. That way you get a new
episode every week. And sign up for
emails or find transcripts for every
episode at no-briers.com.